# Machine-Learning-on-a-2-D-Ising-Model
In this project, the 2-D Ising model is simulated in Python. A Multilayer Neural Network (MNN) is then trained with the simulated dataset to predict if a 2-D Ising state generated by the simulation was made with a temperature above or below the Curie temperature.

# The Ising Model
The Ising model is a simplified mathematical model used to understand the phase transition of a ferromagnet. It was first studied by Ernst Ising in 1920, who presented the exact solution for the 1-D Ising model. Subsequently, in 1940, Lars Onsager solved and presented the exact solution for the 2-D Ising model on a square lattice. The Ising model becomes incredibly difficult to solve in higher dimensions; in any case, nobody has ever presented and exact solution for the 3-D Ising model. However, numerical solutions or approximations can still be used to understand the Ising model even in higher dimensions. 

In this project, we focus only on simulating the 2-D Ising model from a well-known algorithm known as the Metropolis, which is a variant of Monte Carlo simulation, and using it to train a MNN.

# Notebook Details
The project is divided into two sections. The first section simulates the 2-D Ising model and generates suitable datasets using Monte Carlo methods while presenting a basic introduction to ferromagnetism and the Ising model. The second section employs a MNN to predict the phases of a 2-D Ising Model. Implementing and training the MNN makes use of Keras (with a tensorflow backend) to predict the phases of the Ising model. The main part of this section contains a function that trains a MNN on the training dataset and validates the results against a test dataset.
